GOVERNMENT DATA GETS BIGGER.
MORE THAN 20 MILLION AMERICANS'
PERSONAL INFORMATION IS
COMPROMISED.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN ILL.IF
ALSO AHEAD THIS THURSDAY:
AS WAR WINDS DOWN, AND BUDGETS
TIGHTEN, THE ARMY CUTS 40,000
AMERICAN TROOPS FROM ITS RANKS.
>> Woodruff: THEN, THE HIGH COST
OF HIGHER ED.
WHY GETTING A COLLEGE DEGREE
DOESN'T ALWAYS PAY OFF.
>> YOU COULD MAKE MORE THAN
ENOUGH MONEY TO PAY OFF YOUR
EDUCATION.
>> Ifill: PLUS, REFLECTIONS AT
90.
PRESIDENT JIMMY CARTER LOOKS
BACK ON A FULL LIFE, AND
CU
AMERICA.
>> WE STILL HAVE A LONG WAY TO
GO.
THERE IS STILL RACISM IN OUR
COUNTRY THAT NEEDS TO BE
ADDRESSED ACCURATELY AND I THINK
THE CONFEDERATE FLAG HAS BEEN
SOMETHING THAT'S A LINGERING
ELEMENT OF THIS.
>> Woodruff: THO ARESE SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: THE LATEST DEADLINE IN
THE IRAN NUCLEAR TALKS
APPROACHED TODAY, AMID SIGNS OF
DISCORD.
IRAN'S STATE TV SAID
NEGOTIATIONS ARE DEADLOCKED
BECAUSE THE U.S. WON'T RESPECT
IRANIAN RIGHTS, ESPECIALLY ON
LIFTING SANCTIONS.
MEANWHILE, SECRETARY OF STATE
JOHN KERRY TALKED OF REAL
PROGRESS, EVEN AS HE WARNED THE
VIENNA TALKS ARE NOT OPEN-ENDED.
>> WE ARE NOT GOING TO SIT AT
THE NEGOTIATING TABLE FOREVER.
WE ALSO RECOGNIZE THAT WE
SHOULDN'T GET UP AND LEAVE
SIMPLY BECAUSE THE CLOCK STRIKES
MIDNIGHT.
AND I EMPHASIZE, GIVEN THAT THE
WORK HERE IS INCREDIBLY
TECHNICAL AND THE STAKES ARE
VERY, VERY HIGH, WE WILL NOT
RUSH AND WE WILL NOT BE RUSHED.
>> Ifill: TOMORROW'S DEADLINE
FALLS ON DAY 14 OF THE CURRENT
TALKS.
>> Woodruff: CHINESE STOCKS MADE
A SIX PERCENT COMEBACK TODAY
AFTER YESTERDAY'S CRASH.
IT GAVE UP MOST OF THE GAINS BY
DAY'S END.
IN THE END, THE DOW JONES
INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE ADDED 33
POINTS TO
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED 33 POINTS TO CLOSE NEAR
17,550.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 12 POINTS,
AND THE S&P 500 ADDED FOUR.
>> Ifill: THE INTERNATIONAL
MONETARY FUND HAS DOWNGRADED ITS
FORECAST FOR GLOBAL GROWTH, TO
3.3% THIS YEAR.
THAT'S THE LOWEST SINCE 2009.
THE I.M.F. TODAY BLAMED ECONOMIC
WEAKNESS IN THE U.S. EARLIER
THIS YEAR, BROUGHT ON BY WINTER
WEATHER AND DISRUPTIONS AT WEST
COAST PORTS.
>> Woodruff: GREECE SENT A NEW
PACKAGE OF FINANCIAL REFORMS TO
EUROPEAN CREDITORS TODAY, JUST
AHEAD OF A DEADLINE.
THE PACKAGE IS DESIGNED TO WIN
PROMISES OF A NEW BAILOUT, AT A
LAST-DITCH SUMMIT OF EUROPEAN
LEADERS ON SUNDAY.
GERMAN CHANCELLOR ANGELA MERKEL
SUMMED UP THE SITUATION TODAY,
ON A TRIP TO BOSNIA.
ON A TRIP TO BOSNIA. >> (
translated): WITH REGARD
>> (translated): WITH
REGARD TO SUNDAY EVENING, IT IS
TO SUNDAY EVENING, IT IS
COMPLETELY IMPOSSIBLE FOR ME TO
SPECULATE.
IT WILL BE A DECISIVE MEETING,
AN IMPORTANT ONE.
WE MUST NOT FORGET THAT THE
GREEK PEOPLE ARE SUFFERING AT
THE MOMENT.
THE BANKS ARE CLOSED AND AS
POLITICIANS WE ALL HAVE THE DUTY
TO MAKE DECISIONS.
>> Woodruff: THE GREEKS
ESPECIALLY WANT DEBT
RESTRUCTURING, AND THE GERMAN
FINANCE MINISTER CONCEDED TODAY
THAT SOME RESTRUCTURING MAY BE
NECESSARY.
>> Ifill: THE WAVE OF REFUGEES
FLEEING THE CIVIL WAR IN SYRIA
NOW TOPS FOUR MILLION.
UNITED NATIONS OFFICIALS
REPORTED THE NEW NUMBER TODAY.
IT'S THE LARGEST FLOW OF
REFUGEES IN NEARLY 25 YEARS.
IN ADDITION, ANOTHER 7.5 MILLION
PEOPLE HAVE BEEN FORCED FROM
THEIR HOMES, BUT ARE STILL
INSIDE SYRIA.
>> Woodruff: IN BOSNIA,
THOUSANDS TURNED OUT TODAY TO
HONOR NEWLY IDENTIFIED VICTIMS
OF THE SREBRENICA MASSACRE.
SOME 8,000 MUSLIM MEN AND BOYS
WERE SLAUGHTERED BY BOSNIAN
SERBS IN 1995.
CROWDS OF MOURNERS GATHERED
TODAY AS A LARGE TRUCK ARRIVED
WITH 136 COFFINS.
THEY'RE TO BE BURIED ON
SATURDAY, THE 20th ANNIVERSARY
OF EUROPE'S WORST MASS KILLING
SINCE WORLD WAR TWO.
>> Ifill: THE MAN TAPPED TO BE
THE TOP AMERICAN MILITARY
OFFICER TODAY BRANDED RUSSIA
THE GREATEST THREAT TO U.S.
SECURITY.
MARINE COMMANDANT JOSEPH DUNFORD
TESTIFIED AT A SENATE HEARING ON
HIS NOMINATION TO CHAIR THE
JOINT CHIEFS.
>> IN RUSSIA WE HAVE A NUCLEAR
POWER.
WE HAVE ONE THAT NOT ONLY HAS
THE CAPABILITY TO VIOLATE THE
SOVEREIGNTY OF OUR ALLIES AND TO
DO THINGS THAT ARE INCONSISTENT
WITH OUR NATIONAL INTERESTS, BUT
THEY'RE IN THE PROCESS OF DOING
SO.
SO IF YOU WANT TO TALK ABOUT A
NATION THAT COULD POSE AN
EXISTENTIAL THREAT TO THE UNITED
STATES, I'D HAVE TO POINT TO
RUSSIA AND IF YOU LOOK AT THEIR
BEHAVIOR IT'S NOTHING SHORT OF
ALARMING.
>> Ifill: DUNFORD ALSO SAID HE
BELIEVES IT WOULD BE
BELIEVES IT WOULD BE REASONABLE
TO SUPPLY LETHAL ARMS TO
UKRAINE, TO BATTLE RUSSIAN-
BACKED REBELS.
>> Woodruff: AND, A PLANNING
COMMISSION IN WASHINGTON
APPROVED A REVISED DESIGN TODAY
FOR AN EISENHOWER MEMORIAL ON
THE NATIONAL MALL.
IT INCLUDES COLUMNS AND A STEEL
MESH TAPESTRY SHOWING THE KANSAS
PLAINS WHERE THE FUTURE ALLIED
COMMANDER AND PRESIDENT GREW UP.
THE EISENHOWER FAMILY HAS
OBJECTED TO THE DESIGN, AND
ONGRCESS HAS SO FAR BALKED AT
PAYING FOR THE PROJECT.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
NEW DETAILS ON A MAJOR DATA
BREACH AFTER GOVERNMENT COMPUTER
SYSTEMS WERE HACKED.
THE U.S. ARMY CUTS CLOSE TO
60,000 TROOPS AND CIVILIANS FROM
ITS RANKS.
SOUTH CAROLINA LAWMAKERS VOTE TO
TAKE DOWN THE CONFEDERATE FLAG.
HOLDING CITIES ACCOUNTABLE TO
REDUCE SEGREGATED HOUNG.SI
WHEN COLLEGE PAYS OFF
ECONOMICALLY AND WHEN IT
DOESN'T.
PRESIDENT JIMMY CARTER ON A
LIVING A FULL LIFE AT 90.
AND, CONGRESS SEEKS COMMON
GROUND TO UPDATE NO CHILD LEFT
BEHIND.
>> Ifill: MORE THAN 21 MILLION
AMERICANS HAD PERSONAL
INFORMATION STOLEN FROM
GOVERNMENT FILES IN A DATA
BREACH THAT WAS SIX TIMES AS
LARGE AS ORIGINALLY DISCLOSED.
THE INFORMATION WAS HACKED FROM
THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL
MANAGEMENT OR O.P.M., WHICH SAID
TODAY IT IS "HIGHLY LIKELY" THAT
ANYONE WHO WENT THROUGH
BACKGROUND CHECKS TO APPLY FOR A
GOVERNMENT POSITION SINCE 2000
WAS AFFECTED.
JOINING US TO FILL IN THE BLANKS
IS JOSH LEDERMAN OF THE
ASSOCIATED PRESS, WHO HAS BEEN
COVERING THE STORY.
IN TERMS OF SCOPE, WE KNOW THIS
IS HUGE, BUT HOW IS IT DIFFERENT
FROM THE EARLIER HACKS WE'VE
HEARD ABOUT, JOSH?
>> WHAT WE'RE FINDING OUT NOW,
GWEN, IS NOT ONLY WERE MANY MORE
AMERICANS AFFECTED THAN WE
PREVIOUSLY KNEW, BUT JUST WHAT
KINDS OF DATA.
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT VERY
PERSONAL DATA MOST PEOPLE WOULD
BE VERY UNCOMFORTABLE KNOWING
IT'S OUT THERE -- HEALTH
HISTORIES, CRIMINAL HISTORIES,
EDUCATIONAL AND RESIDENCY
BACKGROUNDS, AS WELL AS
INTERVIEWS THEY CONDUCTED WITH
MEMBERS OF O.P.M. AND OTHERS
CONDUCTED BACKGROUND CHECKS TO
GET A SECURITY CLEARANCE.
>> Ifill: SOCIAL SECURITY
NUMBERS, BIOMETRIC FINGER
PRINTS --
>> AS WELL AS USER NAMES AND
PASSWORDS THE APPLICANTS USED TO
GET THE APPLICATIONS.
>> Ifill: HOW WAS THIS
DISCOVERED?
>> BY A SYSTEM THAT THE
GOVERNMENT PUT IN PLACE TO TRY
AND DETECT BREACHES JUST LIKE
THIS ONE.
UNFORTUNATELY, THAT SYSTEM WAS
NOT THE MOST MODERN SYSTEM AND
IT DID NOT DETECT IT UNTIL IT
WAS QUITE A BIT TOO LATE.
AS THE GOVERNMENT LOOKED INTO
IT, THEY REALIZED THE INITIAL
BRIEF THEY DETECTEECTED MANY MOE
PEOPLE THAN INITIAL THOUGHT.
>> Ifill: AT THE TIME I
REMEMBER THERE BEING SPECULATION
ABOUT WHO ACTUALLY WAS BEHIND
THE BREECH, WHO THE HACKERS
WERE.
ANY CASE WHO THAT MIGHT HAVE
BEEN?
>> NO INDICATION FROM THE
GOVERNMENT.
MANY MEMBERS OF CONGRESS AND
OTHERS SAID THIS WAS CHINA.
EVEN FEDERAL AGENCIES HAVE SAID,
WITHOUT PUTTING THEIR OWN NAMES
ON IT, WE'RE PRETTY SURE THIS IS
CHINA.
HOWEVER, THE WHITE HOUSE, THE
OFFICE OF PERSONAL MANAGEMENT
TODAY, DECLINING TO NAME WHO WAS
RESPONSIBLE, ONLY TO SAY THE TWO
BREACHES WERE BY THE SAME PERSON
AND THEY'RE WORKING BEHIND THE
SCENES TO DO WHAT'S TO BE DONE
IN RESPONSE TO THE BREACHES.
>> YOU SAID THE GOVERNMENT PUT
IN A SYSTEM TO DETECT THE
BREACHES.
DOES THIS SYSTEM FIGURE OUT HOW
TO PREVENT THEM FROM HAPPENING
AGAIN?
>> THE PROBLEM IS WE'RE IN A BIT
OF RACE WITH THE HACKERS, SO AS
SOON AS THE GOVERNMENT COMES UP
WITH A NEW SYSTEM TO DETECT
INTRUSIONS, HACKERS FIND
SMARTER, MORE COMPLEX WAY AROUND
IT.
THE GOVERNMENT SAYS THEY'RE
PUTTING IN THE LATEST SYSTEM TO
DETECT AND PREVENT THE
INTRUSIONS BUT THE GOVERNMENT IS
ALSO ONLY ACKNOWLEDGING IT'S A
MATTER OF TIME BEFORE THE
MACKERS GET BETTER AT THEIR
GAME.
>> Ifill: SEEMS LIKE EVERY
WEEK SOMEBODY IS BEING HACKED.
ARE THESE SIMILAR ONE AFTER THE
OTHER?
>> THERE ARE BASIC DIFFERENCES
IN BETWEEN THEM, BUT THE THING
THAT'S CONSTANT IS THE FACT THAT
THERE IS THIS THREAT THAT
GOVERNMENT AND PRIVATE SECURITY
OFFICIALS, CYBER SECURITY
OFFICIALS SAY SOME GOING TO GROW
AS WE HEAD INTO THE FUTURE.
>> Ifill: WE KNOW A LOT OF
REPUBLICANS, ESPECIALLY LEADERS,
HAVE CALLED FOR ADMINISTRATOR
KATHERINE ARC LETTA'S
RESIGNATION.
IS HER JOB IN DANGER AS A RESULT
OF THE DISCLOSURE?
>> I BELIEVE.
SHE'S NOT STEPPING DOWN, SHE
PLANS TO DO THE WORK SHE'S DOING
AND HER OFFICE IS DOING
EVERYTHING THEY'VE NEED TO DO,
BUT IN THE LAST FEW HOURS WE'VE
SEEN PROMINENT MEMBERS, HOUSE
SPEAKER JOHN BOEHNER, SENATOR
JOHN McCAIN, A FEW MINUTES
AGO, COMING OUT AND STHAIG'RE
OF THE OFFICE OF
PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT AND THINKS
THERE NEEDS TO BE A CHANGE.
>> Ifill: THAT'S HOW IT
BEGINS.
JOSH LEDERMAN, ASSOCIATED PRESS.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU, GWEN.
>> Woodruff: NOW TO THE BIG CUTS
ANNOUNCED TODAY BY THE U.S.
ARMY.
IT'S THE LATEST IN A SERIES OF
DOWNSIZING MOVES AS THE ARMY
WINDS DOWN FROM TWO WARS, AND
FACES UP TO BUDGET CUTS.
ARMY BRIGADIER GENERAL RANDY
GEORGE FORMALLY ANNOUNCED TODAY
A REDUCTION OF 40,000 SOLDIERS.
>> THE DECISION TO MAKE THESE
REDUCTIONS WAS NOT EASY AND WILL
AFFECT ALMOST EVERY ARMY
INSTALLATION.
>> Woodruff: THE ARMY'S ACTIVE-
DUTY TROOP LEVELS PEAKED DURING
THE IRAQ AND AFGHANISTAN WARS.
AS RECENTLY AS 2012, THE SERVICE
HAD 570,000 SOLDIERS.
THE NUMBER HAS SINCE FALLEN TO
490,000, AND BY 2017, THE NEW
CUTS WILL BRING THE FORCE DOWN
TO 450,000.
IN ADDITION, 17,000 CIVILIAN
POSITIONS ARE BEING ELIMINATED.
GENERAL RAY ODIERNO, THE ARMY
CHIEF OF STAFF, SAYS HE CAN
ACCEPT THIS NEW LEVEL.
BUT ANOTHER 30,000 TROOPS MAY BE
CUT IF ADDITIONAL BUDGET
REDUCTIONS GO FORWARD THIS FALL.
AT A SENATE HEARING TODAY,
ARIZONA REPUBLICAN JOHN McCAIN
WARNED THE BUDGET PROCESS KNOWN
AS SEQUESTRATION IS DRIVING THE
ARMY TO RUIN.
>> UNLESS WE CHANGE COURSE,
ELIMINATE SEQUESTRATION, AND
RETURN TO STRATEGY-DRIVEN
DEFENSE BUDGETS, I FEAR OUR
MILITARY WILL CONFRONT DEPLETED
READINESS, CHRONIC MODERNIZATION
PROBLEMS, AND DETERIORATING
MORALE.
>> Woodruff: THE CHAIRMAN OF THE
JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF, GENERAL
MARTIN DEMPSEY, EARLIER THIS
WEEK BLAMED CONGRESS FOR NOT
ALLOWING CHANGES THAT WOULD HAVE
REDUCED THE NEED FOR CUTS.
THE MARINE COMMANDANT, GENERAL
JOSEPH DUNFORD, NOMINATED TO
REPLACE HIM, TODAY HAD HIS OWN
DIRE PREDICTION.
>> AND QUITE HONESTLY THE
READINESS OF THE JOIN FORCE AND
MODERNIZATION OF THE JOINT FORCE
WILL SUFFER WHAT I WOULD
DESCRIBE, AND WITHOUT
EXAGGERATION, AS CATASTROPHIC,
CONGRESSIONAL DELEGATIONS ARE
EXPECTED TO OPPOSE THE CUTS
ANNOUNCED TODAY.
BUT MORE LIBERAL LAWMAKERS HAVE
LONG FAVORED PARING THE MILITARY
IN FAVOR OF DOMESTIC PRIORITIES.
WE TAKE A CLOSER LOOK AT THESE
CUTS WITH NANCY YOUSSEF, SENIOR
NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT
FOR THE DAILY BEAST.
NANCY, GOOD TO HAVE YOU WITH US
AGAIN.
WHY IS THE ARMY MAKING THESE
CUTS?
>> WELL, THE REASON THEY GIVE IS
BUDGETARY PRESSURES BECAUSE I
KNOW THE BUDGET PROPOSED BY
CONGRESS, THE U.S. ARMY MUST
COME DOWN FROM 490 TO 475.
THE ARMY TOOK AN ADDITIONUM STEP
FURTHER GOING WITH THE
PRESIDENT'S BUDGET SAYING THEY
WILL CUT IT TO 450 THE FOLLOWING
YEAR.
SO THEIR ARGUMENT IS IT'S BUDGE
TAIMPLET FRANKLY, ONE OF THE
OTHER ARGUMENTS THEY'RE MAKING
IS BY PRESENTING THESE NUMBERS
NOW AND WHAT IT WOULD LOOK LIKE,
THEY'RE TRYING TO RAISE
AWARENESS IN THE COMMUNITIES IN
WHICH THE BAILS ARE SITTING THAT
THESE ARE THE KINDS OF CUTS THAT
COULD BE COMING THEIR WAY.
PART OF IT IS BUDGETARY AND PART
OF IT IS RAISING AWARENESS OF
THE THREAT TO THE U.S. ARMY IF
SEQUESTRATION AND OTHER BUDGET
PRESSURES KEEP SITTING ON TOP OF
THE ARMY, IF YOU WILL.
>> Woodruff: YOU'RE SAYING
THESE MAY NOT ALL MATERIALIZE?
>> THE 475 WILL MATERIALIZE
BECAUSE THAT'S BOTH IN THE
CONGRESSIONAL AND PRESIDENT'S
PROPOSED BUDGET.
THE 450 PROPOSED THE FOLLOWING
YEAR IS NOT SET IN STONE.
THAT IS A MUCH MORE SPECULATIVE
FIGURE, IN YOU WILL.
>> Woodruff: SO WHERE WOULD
BOTH THE UNIFORM AND CIVILIAN
CUTS COME FROM?
WHAT KIND OF PEOPLE ARE WE
TALKING ABOUT?
>> THE BIGGEST BASES THAT WILL
BE AFFECTED ARE FORT HOOD,
RICHARDSON.
>> Woodruff: FORT HOOD IS IN
TEXAS.
>> THAT'S CORRECT.
RICHARDSON.
ALASKA, HAWAII, THOSE ARE
INFANTRY AND BRIGADE TEAMS SO
ABOUT 10,000 CUTS WILL COME FROM
THOSE BASES ALONE, AND IN
ADDITION TO FORT BENING, AND
ANOTHER 17,000 CIVILIANS WHICH
WILL GO ACROSS THE FORCE.
HEADQUARTER BRIGADES, 25% OF
THOSE WILL BE CUT.
THE ARMY TALKED ABOUT CUTTING
MILITARY POLICE AND OTHER
SUPPORT PERSONNEL.
>> Woodruff: AND FORT BENING
BEING IN GEORGIA.
>> YES.
>> Woodruff: HOW DOES THIS
AFFECT THE MILITARY'S ABILITY TO
PROTECT U.S. INTERESTS IN WE'RE
HEARD WHAT GENERAL DUNNFORD JUST
SAID, NOMINATED TO BE THE NEXT
CHAIRMAN OF THE CHIEFS.
HOW DOES THIS AFFECT THE ABILITY
FOR THEM TO DO THEIR JOB?
>> THE ARMY SAYS IF IT GOES
BELOW 450,000, IT PUTS THE U.S.
AT SIGNIFICANT RISK.
THEY DON'T SPELL OUT HOW
DIFFERENT THE RISK IS IF IT'S AT
490 VERSUS 450 VERSUS 420.
THAT'S THE CHALLENGE THEY SAY.
THE NUMBERS PUT FORTH ARE THE
LOWEST SINCE 1940.
ON 9/11, THE U.S. HAD 480,000
TROOPS.
SO THESE PROPOSED NUMBERS PUT IT
WELL BELOW THOSE FIGURES.
>> Woodruff: YOU'RE SAYING
THEY'RE NOT SPELLING OUT EXACTLY
WHAT IT COULD MEAN.
YOU'RE ASKING THESE QUESTIONS, I
ASSUME.
>> THAT'S RIGHT, BECAUSE THEY
HAVE TO ANSWER WHAT IS THE
THREAT LEVEL IF THERE'S 450,000
TROOPS VERSUS 475,000 TROOPS,
AND THAT'S A HARD THING TO
ANSWER, ISN'T IT, BECAUSE
THEY'RE TRYING TO PREPARE FOR
SEVERAL CONTINGENCIES FROM
RUSSIA, NORTH KOREA, CHINA, THE
ISLAMIC STATE.
SO HOW DO YOU PUT IN
SUBJECTIVE LIST OF THREATS, IF
YOU WILL?
>> Reporter: ARE.
>> Woodruff: ARE THEY SAYING
THEY WILL ANSWER THE QUESTION OR
THEY DON'T THINK IT CAN BE
ANSWERED?
>> THEY WILL SAY IN VERY GENERAL
TERMS BECAUSE THEY SAY THE U.S.
FACES THESE KINDS OF THREATS
THAT WHEN YOU HAVE A LOWER FORCE
STRUCTURE, THAT PUTS THE U.S. AT
RISK BECAUSE THERE ARE FEWER
PEOPLE WHO ARE PREPARED SHOULD
THE UNITED STATES FACE AN
EMINENT THREAT.
REALISTICALLY, THEY WILL
PROBABLY DEPEND MORE ON THE
NATIONAL GUARD AND RESERVE TO
COME UP, THE SORT OF ARMY THAT
SITS NOW IS PREPARED FOR
IMMINENT THREATS, AND SHOULD
THERE BE A LONG-TERM THREAT, THE
PLAN, FROM WHAT WE CAN TELL, IS
TO DEPEND ON MORE GUARD AND
RESERVE UNITS TO COM COME IN FR0
DAYS OR 120 DAYS OF THREATS.
>> Woodruff: AS YOU REFERENCED
AND WE HEARD FROM SENATOR JOHN
McCAIN, SO MUCH OF WHAT'S
COMING IN THE FEATURE DEPENDS ON
SEQUESTRATION, THE ACROSS THE
BOARD CUTS THAT HAPPEN IF THE
WHITE HOUSE AND CONGRESS CAN'T
AGREE ON THE BUDGET.
WHERE DOES THAT STAND?
>> WE'RE WEIGHT TO SEE OF THE
SEQUESTRATIOATEN
AFTER THE CUTS.
NOW THE PROPOSED TO PUT THE ARMY
IN STRENGTH OF 450,000.
SHOULD SEQUESTRATION GO THROUGH
AFTER 2017, 2018, THE PROPOSAL
IS TO CUT AND ADDITIONAL 30,000
TROOPS, WHICH WOULD BE 420,
REMARKABLY LOW COMPARED TO
PREVIOUS IN STRENGTH LEVELS.
>> Woodruff: AND SENATOR
McCAIN TALKED ABOUT DEPLETING
MORALE AND READINESS AND SO ON.
>> THAT'S TRUE.
YOU HAVE AN ENTIRE U.S. ARMY
THAT'S ON PINS AND NEEDLES.
WILL I BE CUT FROM MY JOB OR
MOVED TO A DIFFERENT UNIT.
THIS COMES FROM BUDGETARY CUTS
AND THIS IS SOMETHING THE ARMY
HAS STRUGGLED WITH FOR SEVERAL
YEARS.
>> Woodruff: THIS ANNOUNCEMENT
PUTS EVERYONE ON NOTICE.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
>> Woodruff: NANCY YOUSSEF,
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: NOW, AFTER DECADES OF
DEBATE THAT ENDED IN AN
EMOTIONAL LATE NIGHT SESSION IN
SOUTH CAROLINA'S STATE CAPITAL,
THE CONFEDERATE BATTLE FLAG
CONTROVERSY IS REACHING ITS END,
IN COLUMBIA, IF NOT IN THE REST
OF THE NATION.
CORRESPONDENT WILLIAM BRANGHAM
HAS OUR REPORT.
>> Brangham: IT WAS A MOMENT
THAT MANY, ON BOTH SIDES OF THE
ISSUE, THOUGHT WOULD NEVER COME:
THE GOVERNOR OF SOUTH CAROLINA
SIGNING A BILL TO REMOVE THE
CONFEDERATE BATTLE FLAG FROM THE
STATE CAPITOL GROUNDS.
WE ARE A STATE THAT BELIEVES
IN TRADITION.
WE'RE A STATE THAT BELIEVES IN
HISTORY.
RESPECT.
SO WE WILL BRING IT DOWN WITH ME
THAT IT IS PUT IN ITS RIGHTFUL
PLACE.
>> Brangham: GOVERNOR NICKI
HALEY'S ACTION MEANS THE FLAG
WILL BE LOWERED TOMORROW AND
TAKEN TO A MUSEUM FOR DISPLAY.
ALL THIS FOLLOWS 13 HOURS OF
DEBATE IN THE STATE HOUSE THAT
WENT INTO THE EARLY HOURS OF
THIS MORNING.
LAWMAKERS FROM BOTH SIDES GAVE
IMPASSIONED PLEAS, MANY OF THEM,
LIKE REPRESENTATIVE JENNY
ANDERSON HORN, IN FAVOR OF
BRINGING DOWN THE FLAG.
>> I CANNOT BELIEVE THAT WE DO
NOT HAVE THE HEART IN THIS BODY
TO DO SOMETHING MEANINGFUL, SUCH
AS TAKE A SYMBOL OF HATE OFF
THESE GROUNDS ON FRIDAY.
>> Brangham: OTHERS, INCLUDING
REPRESENTATIVE ERIC BEDINGFIELD,
OBJECTED TO ITS REMOVAL.
>> I UNDERSTAND THERE ARE
DIFFERING VIEWS ON WHAT A SYMBOL
REPRESENTS.
IT GRIEVES ME TOO THAT SOME
PEOPLE SEE THAT IN A HURTFUL AND
DISHONORABLE FASHION.
>> Brangham: ULTIMATELY, THE
MEASURE PASSED OVERWHELMINGLY,
JUST AS IT HAD IN THE STATE
SENATE.
>> THE POLLS WILL CLOSE, THE
CLERK WILL TABULATE.
BY A VOTE OF 94 TO 20, SENATE
BILL 897 RECEIVES THIRD READING.
>> Brangham: THAT FLAG WAS FIRST
RAISED OVER SOUTH CAROLINA'S
CAPITOL DOME IN 1961, MARKING
THE 100th ANNIVERSARY OF THE
START OF THE CIVIL WAR.
IT STAYED AS A PROTEST AGAINST
THE BURGEONING CIVIL RIGHTS
MOVEMENT.
IN 2000, STATE LAWMAKERS MOVED
IT TO ITS CURRENT SPOT ON THE
CAPITOL GROUNDS, AND THE DEBATE
SIMMERED ON.
THEN, CAME THE MASSACRE AT THE
CHARLESTON CHURCH LAST MONTH.
NINE PEOPLE, INCLUDING STATE
SENATOR CLEMENTA PINCKNEY, WERE
GUNNED DOWN.
THE ACCUSED SHOOTER, DYLANN
ROOF, HAD REGULARLY POSED WITH
CONFEDERATE FLAGS, AND POLICE
SAY HE TOLD THEM HE HOPED TO
TRIGGER A RACE WAR.
WITHIN DAYS, GOVERNOR HALEY
CALLED FOR TAKING THE FLAG OFF
THE STATE HOUSE GROUNDS, AND
LONGSTANDING OPPOSITION
CRUMBLED.
THE EVENTS IN SOUTH CAROLINA
ECHOED TODAY IN WASHINGTON, IN
SENATE CHAPLAIN BARRY BLACK'S
MORNING PRAYER.
>> AND LORD, WE PRAISE YOU FOR
THE COURAGE OF THE SOUTH
CAROLINA LEGISLATURE.
>> Brangham: AND IN THE HOUSE,
WHERE REPUBLICANS OFFERED AN
AMENDMENT TO A FUNDING BILL THAT
WOULD'VE ALLOWED THE FLAG TO BE
FLOWN AT CEMETERIES OPERATED BY
THE NATIONAL PARK SERVICE.
THAT MOVE TRIGGERED A FIERCE
DEBATE, WITH A WAVE OF DEMOCRATS
BLASTING THE IDEA-- LAWMAKERS
LIKE NEW YORK CONGRESSMAN
HAKEEM JEFFRIES.
>> WHAT EXACTLY IS THE TRADITION
OF THE CONFEDERATE BATTLE FLAG
THAT WE'RE SUPPORTING?
IS IT SLAVERY, RAPE, KIDNAP,
TREASON, GENOCIDE OR ALL OF THE
ABOVE?
>> Brangham: BUT REPUBLICAN OF
IOWA STEVE KING STOOD TO ARGUE
THAT THIS IS AN ISSUE OF FREE
SPEECH.
>> WE CAN ACCEPT OUR HISTORY, WE
CAN BE PROUD OF OUR HISTORY, WE
CAN UNIFY OUR COU WERE
MURDERED AND WE CAN PRESERVE OUR
FIRST AMENDMENT RIGHTS.
>> Brangham: ULTIMATELY, HOUSE
LEADERS PULLED THE BILL FROM THE
FLOOR, WITH HOUSE SPEAKER JOHN
BOEHNER URGING CALM.
>> I ACTUALLY THINK IT'S TIME
FOR SOME ADULTS HERE IN THE
CONGRESS TO ACTUALLY SIT DOWN
AND HAVE A CONVERSATION ABOUT
HOW TO ADDRESS THIS ISSUE.
I DO NOT WANT THIS TO BECOME
SOME POLITICAL FOOTBALL, IT
SHLD NOUOT.
>> Brangham: AND DEMOCRATIC
MINORITY LEADER NANCY PELOSI
OFFERED LEGISLATION TO REMOVE
ALL STATE FLAGS CONTAINING ANY
PORTION OF THE CONFEDERATE
BATTLE FLAG FROM THE HOUSE SIDE
OF THE CAPITOL.
REPUBLICANS BLOCKED A VOTE ON
THAT MEASURE, AND SENT IT OFF TO
COMMITTEE.
>> Ifill: THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION THIS WEEK
ANNOUNCED PLANS TO STEP UP
ENFORCEMENT OF THE 1968 FAIR
HOUSING ACT, THAT THE SUPREME
COURT UPHELD AT THE END OF ITS
TERM.
THE NEW RULES REQUIRE CITIES AND
TOWNS TO: DOCUMENT PATTERNS OF
RACIAL BIAS IN THEIR
NEIGHBORHOODS, AND PUBLICALLY
REPORT THE RESULTS EVERY THREE
TO FIVE YEARS.
THE COMMUNITIES WOULD THEN SET
AND TRACK GOALS TO REDUCE
SEGREGATION.
IN EXTREME CASES, THE DEPARTMENT
OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
COULD WITHHOLD FEDERAL FUNDING.
SECRETARY OF HOUSING AND URBAN
DEVELOPMENT JULIAN CASTRO MADE
THE ANNOUNCEMENT YESTERDAY IN
CHICAGO AND HE JOINS ME NOW.
>> Woodruff: NOW, WILL COLLEGE
EXPLAIN TO ME, MR. SECRETARY,
WHAT IS THE CONNECTION BETWEEN
THIS AND THE SUPREME COURT
RULING?
>> THE SUPREME COURT RULING THAT
UPHELD THE USE OF DISPARATE
IMPACT UNDER THE FAIR HOUSING
ACT WAS ALSO A SIGNIFICANT
DEVELOPMENT.
THE RELATIONSHIP IS AMERICA HAS
ALWAYS PRIDED ITSELF ON BEING
THE UNDISPUTED LAND OF
OPPORTUNITY, AND ONE OF OUR
CHALLENGES IS HOW DO WE ENSURE
THAT THAT REMAINS TRUE IN THIS
21st CENTURY.
WITH HOUSING, WE KNOW WHERE YOU
LIVE MATTERS, AND WE WANT TO
MAKE SURE NO ONE'S DESTINY IS
DETERMINED BY THEIR ZIP CODE, SO
THAT PEOPLE HAVE THEIR HOUSING
OPPORTUNITY.
THE DISPARATE IMPACT CASE WAS
ABOUT ENSURING THAT YOU DIDN'T
ABSOLUTELY HAVE TO SHOW
INTENTION, YOU COULD JUST SHOW A
DISPARATE IMPACT TO BRING A
CLAIM UNDER THE FAIR HOUSING
ACT.
WHAT WE HAD YESTERDAY WAS
SOMETHING CALLED AFFIRMATIVELY
FAIR HOUSING, A RULE THAT
BASICALLY GUIDES CITIES AS THEY
THINK ABOUT HOW TO ENSURE THERE
IS GOOD, FAIR HOUSING
OPPORTUNITIES THROUGHOUT THEIR
COMMUNITY.
THIS IS A COLLABORATIVE TOOL
THAT WILL HELP COMMUNITIES PLAN
BETTER AND CONNECT HOUSING
OPPORTUNITY TO THINGS LIKE WHERE
A LIBRARY'S LOCATED, WHERE
SKILLS ARE LOCATED, WHERE'S THE
NEAREST BUS STOP OR TRAIN STOP
SO FOLKS CAN ACCESS JOBS AND
EDUCATION.
>> HOW DO YOU MEASURE THAT?
HOW DO YOU DECIDE WHICH CITIES
ARE -- WHETHER SEGREGATION
PATTERNS ARE CAUSED BY
DISCRIMINATION OR ARE THERE
CITIES IN URBAN AREAS WHERE IT'S
JUST CAUSED BY CHOICE?
>> WELL, ONE OF THE THINGS WE DO
IS NOT JUST WORK WITH CITIES
THAT HAVE HAD DEEP PATTERNS OF
RACIAL SE SEGREGATION, BUT WORK
WITH ALL CITIES AT GET COMMUNITY
BLOCK GRANT MONEY, FOR INSTANCE.
WE'RE LOOKING FOR CITIES TO MAKE
BEST EFFORTS TO ENSURE THAT
EVERYBODY IN THEIR COMMUNITY HAS
A FAIR SHOT.
>> Ifill: GIVE ME AN IDEA OF A
CITY OR A FIX UNDER THESE RULES
YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT.
>> YESTERDAY WE WERE IN CHICAGO
AND I STOOD WITH MAYOR EMANUEL
TO MAKE THE ANNOUNCEMENT ABOUT
THE AFFIRMATIVE FAIR HOUSING
RULE, AND WHAT THEY DID THERE AT
A PLACE CALLED PARK BOULEVARD IS
NOT JUST CREATE A HOUSING
COMMUNITY THAT'S GOING TO ENSURE
THAT MORE FOLKS HAVE GOOD,
DECENT HOUSING, BUT CONNECT THAT
TO A PLACE FOR FOLKS TO
RECREATE, A RECREATION CENTER,
CONNECT IT TO TRANSIT OPTIONS SO
FOLKS CAN GET THE JOBS.
WE'LL KNOW WHEN CITIES ARE
MAKING PROGRESS WHEN THEY PUT
ALL THOSE COMPONENTS TOGETHER,
WHEN THEY PUT HOUSING TOGETHER
WITH BETTER EDUCATIONAL
OPPORTUNITIES, BETTER TRANSIT
OPTION TO PEOPLE CAN GET TO
JOBS, BETTER INFRASTRUCTURE
INVESTMENT.
>> Ifill: FLIP SIDE OF THIS,
SOCIAL ENGINEERING, CRITICS SAY.
THEY SAY THIS IS ANOTHER EXAMPLE
OF EXECUTIVE OVERREACH, THE
OBAMA ADMINISTRATION TRYING TO
ENGINEER OUTCOME.
>> IT'S WITHOUT MERIT.
THE FACT IS WE'RE COLLABORATING
WITH COMMUNITIES.
WE'RE NOT DICTATING TO
COMMUNITIES WHAT THEY HAVE TO
DO.
>> SO YOU'RE GOING TO WITHHOLD
FEDERAL FUNDING.
ISN'T THAT A STICK WITH THE
CARROT?
>> ENFORCEMENT IS A LAST RESORT.
THE FACT IS ENFORCEMENT HAS
ALWAYS BEEN ONE TOOL, ALWAYS A
LAST RESORT, EVERY SINGLE YEAR,
WE HAVE ENFORCEMENT SITUATIONS.
WE'RE APPROACHING THIS RULE OF
FAIR HOUSING IN THE SPIRIT OF
COLLABORATION, AND THE FACT IS
THE VAST MAJORITY OF COMMUNITIES
OUT THERE KNOW THEY HAVE
CHALLENGES WITH RESPECT TO
TRYING TO CREATE FOR OPPORTUNITY
FOR PEOPLE OF MODEST MEANS, AND
THEY WANT TO DO THE RIGHT THING,
AND HUD STANDS READY TO HELP
THEM.
>> Ifill: SOME HOUSING
ADVOCATES SAY THIS IS LIKE SLOW
MOTION CHANGES.
YOU POINTED OUT THE MECHANISMS
HAVE BEEN IN PLACE BEFORE AND
YOU'RE ASKING FOR CITIES,
MUNICIPALITIES OR COMMUNITIES TO
ACCOUNT FOR THEIR OWN BEHAVIOR
EVERY THREE TO FIVE YEARS.
THAT'S NOT IMMEDIATE.
>> IT'S CORRECT TO SAY THAT THIS
IS NOT GOING TO BE AN OVERNIGHT
CHANGE.
HOWEVER, WE REALLY ARE IN IT FOR
THE LONG HAUL, AND THESE
COMMUNITIES WILL NOW BE REQUIRED
TO PUT TOGETHER A PLAN ON HOW
THEY'RE MAKING EFFORTS ON FAIR
HOUSING EVERY FIVE YEARS WHEN
THEY SUBMIT WHAT'S KNOWN AS
THEIR CONSOLIDATED PLAN.
WE'RE CONFIDENT THAT, OVER THE
LONG HAUL, THAT'S GOING TO MEAN
MORE FAMILIES HAVE GOOD HOUSING
OPPORTUNITIES, BOTH BECAUSE
THESE OPPORTUNITIES INVEST IN
OLDER, DISTRESSED NEIGHBORHOODS,
AND THEY'RE SMARTER ABOUT HOW
THEY USE THEIR HOUSING VOUCHERS
TO HELP FAMILIES WHO WANT TO
MOVE TO AREAS OF HIGHER
OPPORTUNITY TO BE ABLE TO DO
THAT.
>> Ifill: IF A COMMUNITY DOES
THIS, TO DEMONSTRATE THIS, THEY
HAVE TO SHOW THEY HAVE MADE AN
INVESTMENT IN AN UNDERSERVED
COMMUNITY BY DOING WHAT?
BY GIVING TAX BREAKS TO
DEVELOPERS?
HOW?
>> IT MIGHT BE ONE OF SEVERAL
THINGS.
IT MIGHT BE DEMONSTRATING WITH
RESPECT TO HOUSING VOUCHERS THAT
THEY'RE ENSURING FAMILIES WHO
HAVE A VOUCHER CAN MOVE TO
DIFFERENT PARTS OF THE
COMMUNITY, THAT AFFORDABLE
HOUSING IS BEING DEVELOPED IN
DIFFERENT PARTS OF THE
COMMUNITY.
IT MAY BE SHOWING THAT THEIR
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK
GRANT OR MONEY WILL REINVEST,
REVITALIZE OLDER, DISTRESSED
PARTS OF THE COMMUNITY, THAT
THEY'RE CONSCIOUS ABOUT ACCESS
TO TRANSPORTATION OPTIONS OR
LIBRARIES.
SO IT'S NOT ANY ONE THING, IT'S
A NUMBER OF DECISIONS THAT
DEMONSTRATE THAT THESE CITIES
UNDERSTAND HOW TO EXPAND
OPPORTUNITY FOR PEOPLE WHO ARE
LOW INCOME, FOLKS OF MODEST
MEANS.
>> Ifill: HOW MUCH FEDERAL
MONEY HANGS IN THE BALANCE WHEN
IT COMES TO ENFORCEMENT?
>> THAT DEPENDS ON THE
COMMUNITY.
DIFFERENT COMMUNITIES RECEIVE
DIFFERENT AMOUNTS OF HUD
ASSISTANCE.
BUT AGAIN, THIS IS A LAST-RESORT
OPTION.
THERE ARE INSTANCES, AND WE'RE
NOT AFRAID TO ENFORCE WHEN WE
NEED TO, BUT WE WANT TO DO EVERY
SINGLE THING WE CAN TO
COLLABORATE WITH COMMUNITIES,
WORK WITH THEM AND FOLLOW THE
LEAD OF LOCAL LEADERS WHO WANT
TO PUT BETTER POLICIES IN PLACE
TO ENSURE THAT THE PEOPLE WHO
ARE LOW INCOME IN THIS 21s
21st CENTURY CAN MAKE IT IF
THEY'RE WILLING TO WORK HARD.
>> Ifill: HOUSING SECRETARY
JULIAN CASTRO.
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: NOW, WILL COLLEGE
PAY OFF?
THE QUESTION MAY BE ON THE MINDS
OF RECENT HIGH SCHOOL GRADUATES
AND THEIR PARENTS.
ECONOMICS CORRESPONDENT PAUL
SOLMAN TAKES A LOOK.
IT'S PART OF OUR WEEKLY SEGMENT,
"MAKING SENSE," WHICH AIRS EVERY
THURSDAY ON THE NEWSHOUR.
GRADUATION DAY FOR THE CLASS
OF 2015 AT PHILADELPHIA ACADEMY.
A CHARTER SCHOOL IN NORTHEAST
PHILLY.
(CHEERS AND APPLAUSE)
SINCE MYSTERY HERE ONLY GOES
BACK 12 YEARS, THIS MAY BE A
TRUE SUPERLATIVE, BUT THIS IS
ALSO A FAIRLY TYPICAL SENIOR
CLASS IN AMERICA THESE DAYS WITH
ABOUT THREE OUT OF EVERY FOUR
GRADS ATTENDING COLLEGE IN THE
FALL.
THE NATIONAL AVERAGE IS 66%.
>> DOLLAR VALUE UNIVERSITY.
COMMUNITY COLLEGE
PHILADELPHIA --
>> SINCE EVERYONE KNOWS COLLEGE
IS CRUCIAL FOR CAREER SUCCESS,
THESE KIDS WILL PROSPER, RIGHT?
AFTER ALL, IT WAS IN THE 18t
18th CENTURY THAT BENJAMIN
FRANKLIN WHO FOUNDED THE
UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA HERE
IN PHILADELPHIA SAID, AN
INVESTMENT IN EDUCATIONIVE GS
THE BEST RETURNS.
>> YOU CAN DO ENORMOUSLY WELL
GOING TO COLLEGE IN THE U.S.
THE RIGHT KIDS GOING TO THE
RIGHT COLLEGE.
AND YOU CAN DO POORLY AS WELL.
>> PETER, A PROFESSOR AT
WHARTON'S BUSINESS SCHOOL, IS
THE AUTHOR OF "WILL COLLEGE PAY
OFF."
HE SAYS FROM A STRICTLY ECONOMIC
POINT OF VIEW, THE ANSWER ISN'T
ALWAYS YES.
>> THE AVERAGE AMERICAN FAMILY
NOW PAYS SEVEN TIMES AS MUCH AS
THE AVERAGE EUROPEAN FAMILY TO
SEND THEIR KID TO COLLEGE.
SEVEN TIMES IS A LOT.
ABOUT A QUARTER OF COLLEGES IN
THE U.S., THE DEGREES FROM THAT
COLLEGE EARN A LOWER RATE OF
RETURN, THAT IS YOU'RE NEVER
GOING TO BAKE MAKEBACK THE MONEY
YOU SPENT GOING BACK TO COLLEGE
IN THE FIRST PLACE.
>> HE ANSWERS HIS OWN QUESTION,
WILL COLLEGE PAY OFF, WITH A
VERY BIG "IT DEPENDS."
FIRST, WHAT COLLEGE AND HOW MUCH
DOES IT COST?
>> I'M GOING TO UNIVERSITY, THE
MAIN CAMPUS.
>> DID JAMES SMITH, CLASS SALUTE
ATTORNEY, CONSIDER A SCHOOL LIKE
PENN WHERE TUITION AND FEES
APPROACH $50,000 A YEAR?
>> I WOULD LOVE TO ATTEND AN IVY
COLLEGE BUT THAT SITUATION
WASN'T GOOD FOR US.
>> WHERE IN-STATE TUITION IS
17,000.
BUT SAYS CAY PELE.
>> YOU'RE LIKELY TO GET MUCH
BETTER FINANCES AS ELITE
SCHOOLS.
IF YOU'RE MAKING A LOW INCOME
YOU CAN'T PAY MUCH OF ANYTHING
IN TUITION COSTS.
>> CHEAP THAN STATE SCHOOL.
YES.
AN IVY LEAGUES OFFER SWEET
DEALS.
>> ONE THING NEW ABOUT FINANCIAL
AIDE IS THE MERIT-BASED
SCHOLARSHIPS WHICH MANY PEOPLE
DIDN'T EXPERIENCE.
THESE ARE BASICALLY SCHOOLS
GIVING YOU A DISCOUNT IF THEY
REALLY WANT YOU TO COME.
>> Reporter: TO BOOST THEIR
S.A.T. SAVAGE.
>> YES, THAT'S WHY THEY DO IT.
>> Reporter: TO MOVE UP IN
COLLEGE RANKINGS.
BY CONTRAST, STUDENTS ATTENDING
CATCH STRAPPED STATE SCHOOLS
HAVE TO RELY ON LOANS.
DAVID IS ONE OF TRIPLETS.
>> WE HAVE TO PAY BACK.
IT'S WORTH IT.
>> Reporter: OR IS IT?
ESPECIALLY SINCE FEDERALLY
UNSUBSIDIZED LOANS ACCUMULATE
INTEREST FROM DAY ONE AND ODDS
ARE THAT A FOUR-YEAR DEGREE WILL
TAKE LONGER THAN FOUR YEARS TO
FINISH.
>> THE COMPLETION RATES AT A
SCHOOL LIKE OURS HERE HAVE 98%
IN FOUR YEARS.
OURS, IF YOU THINK IT MAY TAKE
YOUR KID SIX YEARS TO GRADUATE,
THE RATE OF RETURN GOES WAY
DOWN.
>> Reporter: SO PRICE TAG AND
COMPLETION RATE ARE FACTORS IN
WHETHER COLLEGE WILL PAY OFF.
SINCE THE JOB YOU GET WITH THE
COLLEGE DEGREE, AND CERTAINLY
YOU HAVE THIS MESSAGE BY NOW.
>> THE COLLEGE DPRADZ, HALF THE
UNEMPLOYMENT OF HIGH SCHOOL
GRADS, THAT'S TRUE, BUT IT
DOESN'T MEAN THE COLLEGE GRADS
GET JOBS THAT REQUIRE COLLEGE
SKILLS.
YOU CAN MAKE MORE THAN A HIGH
SCHOOL GRAD AND STILL NOT BE
ABLE TO PAY FOR YOUR EDUCATION.
>> Reporter: WHAT ABOUT THE
SCIENCE TECHNOLOGY, ENGINEERING,
MATH?
>> THE JOB MARKET FOR SCIENCE
MAJORS HAS NEVER BEEN
PARTICULARLY GOOD, FOR MATH
MAJORS, NEVER BEEN ALL THAT
GREAT EITHER.
THE JOBS THAT PAID PRETTY WELL
WERE THE ENGINEERING JOBS, BUT
IT'S NOT THE SAME ENGINEERING
FIELD EVERY YEAR THAT'S HOT.
>> Reporter: TAKE THE HOTTEST,
HIGHEST PAYING JOB FOR THE LAST
FEW YEARS, PETROLEUM
ENGINEERING.
THE FIELD HAD BEEN DEAD BUT WITH
THE FRACKING BOOM, LOTS OF
STUDENTS POURED INTO THE MAJOR.
NOW.
>> KIDS ARE COMING OUT, OIL
PRICES ARE DOWN, EXPLORATION IS
DOWN AND THAT MARKET IS JUST
ABOUT TO COLLAPSE.
SO ONE OF THE THINGS ABOUT THESE
TECHNICAL FIELDS IS IF YOU HIT
THEM RIGHT, IT'S LYLE YOU WILL
DO TERRIFICALLY WELL.
BUT IF YOU HIT THEM WRONG, YOU
COULD BE WAITING TABLES, AND
MANY OF THESE JOBS THAT PAY WELL
INITIALLY IN ENGINEERING IN
PARTICULAR AND IN I.T.
ESPECIALLY DON'T SEEM TO LAST
VERY LONG.
IN THOSE FIELDS, THE EMPLOYERS
CAN COME BACK TO CAMPUS EVERY
COUPLE OF YEARS AND GET NEW
ENGINEERING GRADUATES AND NEW
I.T. PEOPLE WHO HAVE THE LATEST
COURSES AND SKILLS AND MAKES
THOSE JOBS A LITTLE MORE
DISPOSABLE.
>> Reporter: FINALLY, MOST
EMPLOYERS CARE MUCH LESS ABOUT
YOUR DEGREE THAN YOUR WORK
EXPERIENCE.
>> EMPLOYERS DON'T SEEM ALL THAT
INTERESTED IN WHAT YOU LEARNED
FROM THE CLASSROOM.
THE NUMBER ONE THING THEY WANT
OUT OF KIDS WHO JUST GRADUATED
FROM COLLEGE IS WORK EXPERIENCE.
>> Reporter: WITH A 4.0 GPA,
TOMMY HAS A GOOD SHOT OF GETTING
INTO PENN AND AS ONE OF NINE
KIDS, HIS SIST ANGEL WAS
GRADUATING THIS DAY, HE MIGHT
EVEN SCORE MAJOR FINANCIAL AID.
WHAT WILL HE MAJOR IN?
>> SOMETHING TO MAKE ENOUGH
MONEY.
>> Reporter: BUT AS HIS FRIEND
REMINDED US.
>> I AM JOSEPH LYNN, CERTIFIED
TECHNICIAN.
>> Reporter: COLLEGE ISN'T
JUST ABOUT CAREER PATH NOR THE
ONLY PATH TO ECONOMIC SUCCESS.
>> COLLEGE WASN'T FOR ME SO I
THOUGHT 12-MONTH PROGRAM, BEING
ANCTIV AE WORKING WITH MY HANDS,
I'M DOING GOOD.
>> MAKING GOOD MONEY.
IT WORKED OUT GOOD.
>> Reporter: THIS IS ECONOMIC
CORRESPONDENT PAUL SOLNMA
REPORTING FOR THE PBS
"NewsHour" FROM PHILADELPHIA.
>> Woodruff: WE TURN NOW TO
FORMER PRESIDENT JIMMY CARTER,
OUT THIS WEEK WITH HIS 29th
BOOK, "A FULL LIFE: REFLECTIONS
AT 90."
PRESIDENT CARTER, WELCOME BACK
TO THE "NewsHour".
>> IT'S GOOD TO BE BACK, JUDY.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR LETTING
ME COME.
>> Woodruff: WELL, IT HAS BEEN
AN EXTRAORDINARY LIFE.
THERE IS SO MUCH IN THIS BOOK,
STARTING WITH GROWING UP IN
RURAL SOUTH GEORGIA.
THERE'S A LOT IN THERE ABOUT
RACE RELATIONS.
THE REASON I WANT TO ASK ABOUT
THAT TO BEGIN WITH IS IT'S VERY
MUCH IN THE NEWS RIGHT NOW, THE
U.S. CONGRESS HAVING A VOTE ON
IT TODAY, THE STATE OF
SOUTH CAROLINA DECIDING TO MOVE
THE CONFEDERATE FLAG, THAT WAS
WHAT CONGRESS WAS DISCUSSING
TODAY.
YOU HAD THE POLICE SHOOTINGS
AROUND THE COUNTRY, THE MURDERS
IN CHARLESTON.
WHY DO YOU THINK THIS COUNTRY
STILL WRESTLE SO MUCH WITH RACE?
>> I THINK WE KIND OF BREATHED A
SIGH OF RELIEF BACK IN THE
'60s AFTER WE HAD 100 YEARS OF
RACIAL DISCRIMINATION, WERE
SEPARATE BUT EQUAL, AND THE
SUPREME COURT AND CONGRESS
AGREED TO HAVE THAT, ALL THE
CHURCHES, AND THAT'S THE JOHNSON
JEERS OF VOTING RIGHTS ACT AND
MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR., AN DREW
YOUNG AND OTHERS WHO WERE
SUCCESSFUL, THE UNITED STATES
BREATHED A SIGH OF RELIEF AND
SAID, WELL, WE'VE RESOLVED THE
RACE ISSUE, AND DETECTED
AMERICAN SOCIETY WHERE WHITES
WERE IN SUPREME POSITION TO
BLACKS.
AND THE CONFRONTATIONS AND THE
TRAGEDY IN CHARLESTON REMINDED
US WE STILL HAVE A LONG WAY TO
GO.
THERE'S STILL INNATE RACISM IN
OUR COUNTRY THAT STILL NEEDS TO
BE ADDRESSED ACCURATELY AND I
THINK THE CONFEDERATE FLAG HAS
BEEN FOR SOME PEOPLE A LINGERING
ELEMENT OF THIS.
GEORGIA DID AWAY WITH IT 14
YEARS AGO, AND THE GOVERNMENT
THAT DID IT WAS SOUNDLY DEFEATED
WHEN HE WAS UP FOR REELECTION
BECAUSE OF THE FLAG.
>> Woodruff: IT'S A
COMPLICATED SUBJECT.
YOU TALKED ABOUT HOW YOU HAD
AFRICAN-AMERICAN PLAYMATES WHEN
YOU WERE GROWING UP YET YOUR
FATHER BELIEVED IN SEPARATION OF
REGULATIONS.
WHEN INAUGURATED AS GOVERNOR OF
GEORGIA YOU TALK ABOUT THE TIME
OF EDUCATION IS OVER AND THEN
INVITED GEORGE WALLACE TO SPEAK
IN GEORGIA.
WHAT DO YOU THINK ABOUT HOW
POLITICIANS HANDLE THE SUBJECT
OF RACE.
>> I THINK POLITICIANS GO WITH
THE TIDE.
BUT I WAS IMMERSED IN A BLACK
CULTURE FROM THE TIME I WAS
BORN, 4 YEARS OLD AND ON AND
UNTIL I LEFT AT 16.
THE FIRST DRAMATIC DEMONSTRATION
OF RACIAL EQUALITY SEVEN YEARS
BEFORE ROSA PARKS OR MARTIN
LUTHER KING BEING ACTIVE.
HARRY TRUMAN SAID ALL MILITARY
DISCRIMINATION WOULD BE DONE
AWAY WITH IN THE MILITARY AND
CIVIL SERVICE OF THE UNITED
STATES GOVERNMENT.
SO THAT WAS A GOOD INDICATION TO
ME ABOUT THE REAL ADVANTAGES OF
DOING AWAY WITH RACIAL
SEGREGATION.
>> Woodruff: I WANT TO ASK
SOMETHING BEFORE WE GET TO THE
BOOK AND THAT IS THE EMERGING
2016 PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN, THE
CONTEXT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
NOMINATION.
BERNIE SANDERS GETTING BIG
CROWDS, TALKING ABOUT ECONOMIC
INEQUALITY.
SECRETARY CLINTON, OF COURSE, IS
OUT AS WELL.
HE SAYS HE WOULD DO MORE ON
THIS.
HE SAYS HE WANTS TO CUT TAXES ON
THE WEALTHY, SHE HASN'T GONE
THAT FAR.
WHO DO YOU THINK SPEAKS BETTER
ON THE SUBJECT?
>> I THINK INHERENTLY BERNIE
SANDERS AND.
>ANDELIZABETH WARREN.
WALL STREET, DOING AWAY WITH THE
DOMION THEIR POLITICAL SYSTEM.
SO SINCE ELIZABETH WARREN
DE THINK
BERNIE SANDERS INHERITED HER
MANTLE.
AT THE SAME TIME I KNOW THE
DECISION ABOUT THE SUPREME COURT
ON CITIZENS UNITED TO LET MONEY
DOMINATE AMERICA'S POLITICAL
SYSTEM HAS GIVEN, I'D SAY,
HILLARY CLINTON A BIG ADVANTAGE
THAT WOULD BE, I THINK,
OVERWHELMING TOWARD THE END OF
HER CAMPAIGN.
>> Woodruff: BUT YOU'RE SAYING
YOU THINK AT THIS POINT BERNIE
SANDERS SPEAKS MORE --
>> I THINK HE SPEAKS MORE FOR AN
ACTIVE ROLE OF THE DEMOCRATIC
PARTY.
>> Woodruff: AND HAS MORE TO
SAY ABOUT ECONOMIC INEQUALITY?
>> SO FAR HE DOES.
I THINK HE'S BEEN BOLDER IN HIS
PROMULGATION OF HIS OWN IDEAS
THAN HAS HILLARY CLINTON, BUT I
THINK SHE'LL COME ALONG LATER.
>> Woodruff: THERE IS SO MUCH
IN THE BOOK ABOUT YOUR EARLY
LIFE AND I KNOW YOU'VE WRITTEN
ABOUT IT BEFORE BUT I WAS STRUCK
ABOUT HOW YOU WROTE ABOUT YOUR
FATHER.
YOU TALKED ABOUT CRAVING
ATTENTION FROM HIM.
IN FACT YOU INCLUDE A PAINTING
THAT YOU DREW OF YOUR FATHER.
BUT YOU SAID HE WAS SPARING WITH
HIS PRAISE, AND THERE'S PART OF
THE POEM THAT YOU WROTE.
YOU TALKED ABOUT THE PAIN YOU
MOSTLY HIDE AND SAID YOU FELT A
HUNGER FOR HIS OUTSTRETCHED
HAND, A MAN'S EMBRACE TO TAKE ME
IN, THE NEED FOR JUST A WORD OF
PRAISE.
>> YES.
>> Woodruff: HOW DO YOU THINK
THAT AFFECTED YOU?
>> WELL, I WAS TOTALLY DOMINATED
AND I REVERED MY FATHER.I ADMIR.
HE WAS A GREAT SPORTS PERSON.
HE LOVED ME.
I WAS THE ONLY BOY BEFORE MY
BROTHER BILLY CAME ALONG.
HE EXPECTED THE HIGHEST POSSIBLE
ACHIEVE MECHT ON MY PART IN THE
FIELD OR WHEN I HAD MY OWN
BUSINESS OR WHEN I WAS CARRYING
OUT HIS INSTRUCTIONS OR HIS
ADVICE.
AND WHEN I WAS ERRING, HE WAS
PUNITIVE, AND I WOULD RESENT IT
FOR A SHORT PERIOD OF TIME, BUT
I WOULD GET OVER IT AND
EVENTUALLY, I LOOK BACK ON THOSE
TIMES AS A TIME OF MY HUNGERING
FOR HIS WORD OF APPROVAL.
SO THEN I REALIZED TOWARD THE
END, WHEN I HAD MY THREE BOYS,
THAT I TREATED MY BOYS THE SAME
WAY --
>> Woodruff: SPARING IN PRAISE
FOR THEM?
>> SPARING IN PRAISE, THAT'S
TRUE.
AND THEN I SAID MY DADDY IS
STILL A PART OF ME, WHICH IS
TRUE.
>> Woodruff: YOU ALSO NOTE,
YOU WRITE ABOUT YOUR ANCESTORS,
YOUR GRANDFATHER, I GUESS, WHO
DIED IN A GUN FIGHT.
>> AND MY GREAT GRANDFATHER,
TOO.
>> Woodruff: YOUR GRANDFATHER
WAS 45 ON YOUR FATHER'S SIDE
WHEN HE DIED.
YOUR FATHER WAS JUST 58 OR 59
WHEN HE DIED OF CANCER.
YOU HAVE, SO FAR, OUTLIVED THEM.
HOW MUCH DO YOU THINK ABOUT
THAT?
>> WELL, I THINK ABOUT IT WITH
REGRET, OBVIOUSLY, BECAUSE ALL
MY FAMILY HAVE DIED WITH CANCER.
BOTH MY SISTERS DIED WITH
PANCREATIC CANCER, MY BROTHER
DIED WITH PANCREATIC CANCER,
DADDY DIED OF PANCREATIC CANCER,
MY MOTHER DIED OF BREAST CANCER.
THEY ALL SMOKED CIGARETTES.
I NEVER SMOKED CIGARETTES.
I THINK THIS MAY BE A TRIGGERING
DEVICE TO SOME GENETIC MEASURE,
I DON'T KNOW THE BACKGROUND.
BUT THE HEALTH SERVICE OF
AMERICA ADOPTED ME AS A TARGET.
WE WERE THE ONLY FAMILY IN THE
WORLD FOR YEARS THAT WAS KNOWN
TO HAVE PANCREATIC CANCER IN
THOSE NUMBERS.
>> Woodruff: LIVING AS LONG AS
YOU HAVE IS A GIFT.
>> IT AND I'M GRATE.
I THINK A LOT IS LUCK AND A LOT
IS THE FACT THAT ROSA AND I LIVE
A VERY CAREFULLY ORCHESTRATED
LIFE OF PROPER DIET AND A LOT OF
EXERCISE.
BUT SOME OF MY FAMILY MEMBERS
HAVE ALSO HAD PROPER DIET AND
EXERCISE.
SO I SAY LUCK.
>> Woodruff: AND WHAT DO YOU
WANT TO DO WITH THE REST OF YOUR
LONG LIFE?
>> I'M GOING TO STAY ACTIVE AS
LONG AS I CAN POLITICALLY AND
WITH THE CARTER CENTER,
PRIMARILY.
IF I'M ABLE MENTALLY AND
PHYSICALLY, WILL CONTINUE TO BE
QUITE ACTIVE.
THIS HAS BEEN THE MOST TRAVELED
YEAR THAT I'VE HAD IN A NUMBER
OF YEARS, JUST HAPPEN TO HAVE A
LOT OF THINGS COME UP.
BUT THE CARTER CENTER HAS
PROGRAMS IN 80 COUNTRIES IN THE
WORLD, SO WE HAVE A LOT OF
THINGS GOING ON.
>> Woodruff: IT'S NOT A QUIET
LIFE.
>> IT'S A CHALLENGING AND
EXCITING AND UNPREDICTABLE,
ADVENTUROUS, ENJOYABLE LIFE.
>> Woodruff: YOU'RE ALREADY
WORKING ON YOUR NEXT BOOK.
>> THAT'S THE WAY I MAKE A
LIVING.
>> Woodruff: PRESIDENT JIMMY
CARTER, THANK YOU FOR COMING.
>> THANK YOU, JUDY.
I'VE ALWAYS ENJOYED BEING WITH
YOU.
>> Ifill: NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND,
THE COUNTRY'S MOST SWEEPING
EDUCATION LAW, HAS LONG BEEN
BLAMED FOR A RISE IN
STANDARDIZED TESTING, AND FOR
UNFAIRLY LABELING SCHOOLS AS
FAILING.
THIS WEEK THE SENATE TOOK UP THE
FIRST BIPARTISAN EFFORT TO
REPLACE THE LAW SINCE IT EXPIRED
EIGHT YEARS AGO.
IT WOULD REMOVE MUCH OF THE
FEDERAL FOOTPRINT FROM
EDUCATION.
HARI SREENIVASAN HAS THE
DETAILS.
>> Sreenivasan: INSTEAD OF
FEDERAL RULES FOR GRADING AND
PUNISHING SCHOOLS, THE SENATE
LEGISLATION WOULD LET STATES
DESIGN THEIR OWN ACCOUNTABILITY
SYSTEMS.
BUT SERIOUS DISAGREEMENTS
REMAIN.
THE WHITE HOUSE IS CALLING FOR
RULES THAT TELL STATES WHEN TO
INTERVENE IN LOW-PERFORMING
SCHOOLS.
AND SOME REPUBLICANS WANT
FEDERAL FUNDS FOR LOW-INCOME
STUDENTS TO FOLLOW THEM TO THE
SCHOOL OF THEIR CHOICE.
HERE TO LOOK AT WHAT THIS COULD
MEAN FOR SCHOOLS ARE RICK HESS,
DIRECTOR OF EDUCATION POLICY
STUDIES FOR THE AMERICAN
ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE.
AND BOB WISE, FORMER GOVERNOR OF
WEST VIRGINIA AND PRESIDENT OF
THE ALLIANCE FOR EXCELLENT
EDUCATION.
RICK, I WANT TO START WITH YOU
FIRST.
ALL SCHOOLS WERE SUPPOSED TO BE
AT THIS PLACE WHERE KIDS WERE
LEARNING AT GRADE LEVEL BY LAST
YEAR.
WE DIDN'T GET THERE.
HOW DOES THIS PIECE OF
LEGISLATION THINK IT CAN FIX
THAT?
>> UNDERSTANTURNS OUT WHEN YOU A
LAW IN 2001 THAT SAYS 100% OF
CHILDREN WILL BE PROFICIENT IN
READING AND MATH BY 2014, THE
FACT THAT CONGRESS WOULD LIKE IT
TO BE SO DOESN'T MAKE IT.
SO I THINK THAT'S THE BIG
LESSON.
THINGS AROUND ACCOUNTABILITY.
ONE, IT CREATED ENORMOUS
CONTRIBUTION BECAUSE FOR THE
FIRST TIME WE HAD REAL DATA ON
EVERY CHILD IN EVERY STATE ON
HOW THEY DID ON READING AND MATH
THROUGH THEIR SCHOOL YEARS.
WHAT NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND GOT
WRONG WAS, IN THEIR DESIRE TO
MAKE A DIFFERENCE, CONGRESS
WROTE THIS CONVOLUTED,
PROBLEMATIC, OVERREACHING
ACCOUNTABILITY SYSTEM WHICH
TRIED TO TELL STATES HOW TO
DECIDE WHICH SCHOOLS WERE DOING
WELL OR NOT AND HOW TO INTERVENE
IN THOSE SCHOOLS.
TURNS OUT, CONGRESS SACKSLY
HORRIBLY CON -- CONGRESS IS
HORRIBLY CONFIGURED TO DO THIS
AND YOU CREATE A LOT OF
COMPLIANCE AND TEST MANIA AND
VERY LITTLE THAT CONTRIBUTED IN
HELPING KIDS GET BETTER.
WHAT I THINK YOU SEE IN THE
PROPOSALS NOW THAT JUST PASSED
THE HOUSE AND IS DEBATED IN THE
SENATE IS AN EFFORT TO KEEP THE
PART OF NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND
THAT WORKED WELL, THE
TRANSPARENCY AND REGULAR
ASSESSMENT, BUT TO GET THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT OUT OF THAT
MICROMANAGEMENT BUSINESS.
>> Sreenivasan: SO, BOB WISE,
YOU HAVE BEEN A GOVERNOR BEFORE.
WILL REPLACING FEDERAL
GUIDELINES WITH STATE GUIDELINES
FIX THE PROBLEM, ESPECIALLY FOR
THE PARENTS WHO ARE SERIOUSLY
COMPLAINING ABOUT TESTING AND
THE CULTURE THAT IT'S CREATED?
>> SO WHAT WE HAVE, I THINK, IS
A LEGISLATIVE GOLDILOCKS RIGHT
NOW.
RICK IS ABSOLUTELY RIGHT.
I AGREE WITH HIM AT THE NO CHILD
LEFT BEHIND WAS TOO
PRESCRIPTIVE, TOO HOT.
BUT THE SAME TOKEN, THE HOUSE
VERSION, PARTICULARLY, REMOVES
ANY KIND OF MEANINGFUL
ACCOUNTABILITY AND, SO, WHAT YOU
NEED IS YOU NEED THE ABILITY TO
REPORT ON STUDENTS THAT ARE
HAVING LOW OUTCOMES, MEASURE
THEM OVER A PERIOD OF TIME AND
THEN FOR THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
TO SAY TO STATES, LOOK, YOU'VE
GOT TO DO SOMETHING, WE'RE NOT
TELLING YOU WHAT, THAT'S WHAT
THEY TRIED TO DO IN NO CHILD
LEFT BEHIND, WE'RE NOT TELLING
YOU WHAT, BUT WE ARE SAYING YOU
DO NEED TO ACT AND THERE IS A
FEDERAL ROLE IN HELPING SUPPORT
THAT.
SO THAT'S WHERE I THINK WE HAVE
TO GET IT RIGHT IN TERMS OF
WHERE THE SENATE BILL IS.
>> Sreenivasan: IF THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT SAYS YOU CAN CREATED
YOUR OWN DEFINITION OF SUCCESS
AND ERROR, DO WE GO TO AN ERA
WHERE WE HAVE 50 SETS OF
MEASUREMENTS FROM 50 STATES.
>> WE'VE ACTUALLY HAD 50 SETS OF
MEASUREMENTS BECAUSE EACH STATE
GETS TO CHOOSE THE STANDARDS AND
TESTS.
SO YOU HAVE DATA COMPARABLE FOR
EVERY CHILD IN A STATE BUT NOT
NECESSARILY ACROSS STATES.
THAT DOESN'T CHANGE UNDER THE
LAWS BEING DEBATED.
WHAT YOU REALLY GO BACK TO, I
DESCRIBED THIS AS THE LONG WAY
HOME YOU GO BACK TO WHAT BILL
CLINTON PROPOSED IN 1994 WHICH
IS HE SAID, LOOK, LET'S HAVE
EVERY STATE TEST EVERY CHILD
ONCE IN ELEMENTARY SCHOOL IN
READING MATH, ONCE IN MIDDLE
SCHOOL, ONCE IN HIGH SCHOOL AND
MAKE SURE THE DATA IS OUT THERE
SO THAT PARENTS AND POLICYMAKERS
AND EDUCATORS AND VOTERS CAN
MAKE INFORMED DECISIONS.
WHAT WE'RE GOING TO WIND UP WITH
UNDER, SAY, A HOUSE BILL, IS
WHAT CLINTON IMPOSED '94 ON
STEROIDS.
TEST EVERY GRADE LEVEL 3-8 IN
READING MATH, THEN IN HIGH
SCHOOL, AND SCIENCE AND READING
IN MIDDLE AND HIGH SCHOOL.
IT MAKES SURE THAT FOLKS CAN'T
HIDE PROBLEMS.
YOU'RE GOING TO BREAK OUT DATA
FOR ALL THESE DIFFERENT
SUBGROUPS BY ECONOMIC STATUS AND
ETHNICITY, AND WHAT YOU'RE GOING
TO HAVE, WHAT'S GOING TO BE
DIFFERENT FROM NO CHILD LEFT
BEHIND IS THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
WILL NOT BE IN THE BUSINESS OF
DECIDING WHICH SCHOOLS NEED TO
BE INTERVENED IN AND HOW YOU'RE
SUPPOSED TO INTERVENE IN THEM.
>> Sreenivasan: ONE OF THE
POINTS OF CONTENTION BETWEEN
HOUSE AND SENATE BILLS IS THE
DOLLAR SHOULD FOLLOW LOW-INCOME
KIDS IF THEY CHOOSE TO LEAVE A
LOW PERFORMING SCHOOL AND GO TO
A BTER-ETPERFORMING SCHOOL,
WHICH I GU I
WHAT IS THE SIGNIFICANCE OF THIS
AND WHAT'S THE IMPACT?
>> THE IMPACT COULD BE GREAT,
14- TO $15 BILLION DOLLARS IN
TITLE ONE THAT GO TO
CONCENTRATIONS OF LOW-INCOME
CHILDREN.
I THINK IT'S SIGNIFICANT TO NOTE
THE SENATE REJECTED THE
APPROACH.
EVEN WHEN OFFERED BY THE
REPUBLICAN CHAIRMANNAN THE HOUSE
EITHER WHERE THEY DIDN'T TAKE IT
UP OR REJECTED IT AS WELL.
RICK TALKED ABOUT YES, THERE'S
MORE FLEXIBILITY, WITH REGARDS
OF WHAT VERSION PASSES.
BUT I DON'T WANT TO SEE THE BILL
CLINTON 1994 APPROACH HE PUTS ON
STEROIDS RUN AMOK.
IF YOU HAVE 1200 HIGH SCHOOLS
GRADUATING WHERE MORE THAN
ONE-THIRD OF THE KIDS DROP OUT,
IT'S FAIR TO SAY WHY ARE WE
HAVING THE HIGH DROP OUT RATES,
WE'RE NOT TELLING YOU HOW TO FIX
IT BUT WHAT ARE YOU GOING TO DO
TO FIX IT AND WHAT ARE THE TOOLS
YOU NEED TO FIX IT?
THAT'S THE KEY, THE DEBATE
TAKING PLACE ON THE SENATE SIDE.
>> Sreenivasan: IS THIS
LEGISLATION REFLECTING THIS
UPRISING AGAINST THE COMMON
CORE, RICK?
>> NO, I THINK IT'S MORE
ACCURATE TO SAY THE COMMON CORE
GOT CAUGHT UP IN THE FRUSTRATION
OF NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND.
I THINK YOU'VE GOT PARENTS WHO
FEEL LIKE THEIR CHILDREN ARE
BEING OVERTESTED.
IT'S NOT SO MUCH THE FEDERALLY
MANDATED TESTS UNDER NO CHILD
LEFT BEHIND.
IT'S MORE ALL OF THE URGENCY PUT
BEHIND GETTING KIDS TO MAKE SURE
THEY'RE PROFICIENT ON THE TESTS
WHICH LED SCHOOL DISTRICTS TO DO
LOTS OF FORMATIVE ASSESSMENT, TO
DS ARE READY FOR THE
TEST, LOTS OF TEST PREPARATION.
THE IDEA IS BY KEEPING THE
TRANSPARENCY BUT BY LOOSENING
THE TERROR OF BEING ON THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT BLACK HAT
LIST, THAT WHAT'S GOING TO
HAPPEN IS SCHOOL DISTRICTS WILL
BE ABLE TO BE MORE MEASURED
ABOUT THE TESTS.
I THINK THE DEBATES ON TESTING,
AROUND EVALUATION OF TEACHERS
AND STANDARDS AND COMMON CORE,
YOU WILL ACTUALLY SEE A
LESSENING OF SOME OF THE
TEMPERATURE, BECAUSE PEOPLE ARE
GOING TO FEEL THAT THE STAKES
HAVE BEEN REDUCED TO A MORE
MODERATE RANGE.
>> Sreenivasan: BOB WISE, A
QUICK LAST WORD?
>> RICK, I THINK, HAS SUMMED UP
WELL A LOT OF THE SITUATION.
LET'S ALSO REMEMBER THE STATES,
WHETHER THEY ADOPTED THE COMMON
CORE OR THEIR OWN COLLEGE AND
CAREER READY STANDARDS, EVERY
STATE HAS MOVED TO A COLLEGE AND
CAREER-READY STANDARD.
WE WANT TO MAKESURE THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT IS SUPPORTING THE
STATE INITIATIVE.
>> Sreenivasan: BOB WISE AND
RICK HESS, THANKS SO MUCH FOR
JOINING US.
>> Woodruff: IN A LATE NIGHT
PROPOSAL, THE GOVERNMENT IN
ATHENS OFFERED TO IMPOSE HIGHER
SALES TAXES ON VARIOUS GOODS AND
SERVICES AND TO REDUCE STATE
SPENDING ON PENSIONS.
THE PACKAGE ADDRESSES
LONG-STANDING DEMANDS BY THE
COUNTRY'S CREDITORS.
IT'S DESIGNED TO WIN A NEW
EUROPEAN BAILOUT WITH NEARLY
$60 BILLION.
>> Ifill: ON THE NEWSHOUR
ONLINE, BIOLOGISTS AT M.I.T.
HAVE CREATED A GENETICALLY
MODIFIED VERSION OF A COMMON GUT
BACTERIA THAT HAS THE POTENTIAL
TO FIGHT DISEASES LIKE COLON
CANCER AND CROHN'S.
READ ABOUT THE NEW STUDY, AND
HOW IT COULD CHANGE THE WAY WE
TREAT STOMACH ILLNESSES, ON OUR
HOME PAGE, THAT'S AT
pbs.org/newshour.
AND THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR
TONIGHT.
ON FRIDAY, WE'LL LOOK AT A
CRITICALLY ACCLAIMED NEW
DOCUMENTARY ON AMY WINEHOUSE,
THE ROCKSTAR WHO DIED TRAGICALLY
YOUNG.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
JOIN US ONLINE, AND AGAIN HERE
TOMORROW EVENING WITH DAVID
BROOKS AND E.J. DIONNE.
FOR ALL OF US AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.